docs/quickstart/1-retreive-readme.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: "1. Retreive README.md"
nav_order: 1
parent: Quickstart
---

# 1. Retreive README.md
<span class="label label-blue">Application</span>

As a first step, we need to create a function that retreives the README.md file from a GitHub repository.
We'll make use of the official [GitHub API](https://docs.github.com/en/rest). When working with such Web APIs, Brane gives us the option of describing the endpoint(s) that we want to call using the [OpenAPI specifiction](http://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.0.3) and then [build a package](/brane/packages/oas.html) based on this specification. Which in turn generates the desired function(s) for us. This approach illustrates the first type of custom functions that can be added to Brane.

This is a convenient way of saving development time, especially when the OpenAPI specification is already (publicly) available. So, we'll make use of this option, using the following specification, which describes a function named `getreadm`. The `getreadme` function has two parameters: owner and repo. And the output is an object with two properties: name and content, both of string type.

```yaml
openapi: 3.0.0
info:
  title: GitHub
  version: 1.0.0

servers:
  - url: https://api.github.com

paths:
  '/repos/{owner}/{repo}/readme':
    get:
      operationId: getreadme
      parameters:
        - name: owner
          in: path
          required: true
          schema:
            type: string
        - name: repo
          in: path
          required: true
          schema:
            type: string
      responses:
        '200':
          description: Information about the README
          content:
            application/json:
              schema:
                type: object
                required:
                  - name
                  - content
                properties:
                  name:
                    type: string
                  content:
                    type: string
```
Having defined we can use Brane to generate the code for the `getreadme` function and create a package for Brane to add this function to the Brane runtime systemn.

## Building an OAS package
Save the specifiction as `github.yml`, and build the package using the <abbr title="Command-line interface">CLI</abbr> (Fig. 1):
```shell
$ brane build github.yml
```

<p style="text-align: center">
    <img src="/brane/assets/img/brane-build-github.png" style="margin-bottom: -35px" alt="package builder output">
    <br/>
    <sup>Figure 1: package builder output.</sup>
</p>

## Testing a function
Using the <abbr title="Command-line interface">CLI</abbr>, we can test the `getreadme` function that has been generated for us (Fig. 2):
```shell
$ brane test github
```

<p style="text-align: center">
    <img src="/brane/assets/img/brane-test-github.png" style="margin-bottom: -35px" alt="package tester output">
    <br/>
    <sup>Figure 2: package tester output</sup>
</p>

It turned out that the value returned by the `getreadme` function is Base64-encoded. This is not the correct format to build the word count example. We assume the application developer does not have the required knowledge to convert this output to the correct format, he/she will ask a system engineer to develop and add a function that will decode this value in a plain string.

[Previous](/brane/quickstart/quickstart.html){: .btn .btn-outline }
[Next](/brane/quickstart/2-decode-from-base64.html){: .btn .btn-outline }

Commit message:

docs(docs): rename architecture page into overview page

docs/quickstart/1-retreive-readme.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: "1. Retreive README.md"
nav_order: 1
parent: Quickstart
---

# 1. Retreive README.md
<span class="label label-blue">Application</span>

As a first step, we'll create a function that retreives the README.md file from a GitHub repository.
We'll make use of the official [GitHub API](https://docs.github.com/en/rest). When working with such Web APIs, Brane gives us the option of describing the endpoint(s) that we want to call using the [OpenAPI specification](http://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.0.3) and then [build a package](/brane/packages/oas.html) based on this specification. Which in turn generates the desired function(s) for us. 

This is a convenient way of saving development time, especially when the OpenAPI specification is already (publicly) available. So, we'll make use of this option, using the specification provided below.

```yaml
openapi: 3.0.0
info:
  title: GitHub
  version: 1.0.0

servers:
  - url: https://api.github.com

paths:
  '/repos/{owner}/{repo}/readme':
    get:
      operationId: getreadme
      parameters:
        - name: owner
          in: path
          required: true
          schema:
            type: string
        - name: repo
          in: path
          required: true
          schema:
            type: string
      responses:
        '200':
          description: Information about the README
          content:
            application/json:
              schema:
                type: object
                required:
                  - name
                  - content
                properties:
                  name:
                    type: string
                  content:
                    type: string
```
It describes a function named `getreadme`. The `getreadme` function has two parameters: `owner` and `repo`. And the output is an object with two properties: `name` and `content`. All of the `string` type.

## Building an OAS package
Save the specification as `github.yml`, and build the package using the <abbr title="Command-line interface">CLI</abbr> (Fig. 1):
```shell
$ brane build github.yml
```

<p style="text-align: center">
    <img src="/brane/assets/img/brane-build-github.png" style="margin-bottom: -35px" alt="package builder output">
    <br/>
    <sup>Figure 1: package builder output.</sup>
</p>

__Note__: This is the first way of creating [custom functions](/brane/overview#packages) for Brane.

## Testing a function
Using the <abbr title="Command-line interface">CLI</abbr>, we can test the `getreadme` function that has been generated for us (Fig. 2):
```shell
$ brane test github
```

<p style="text-align: center">
    <img src="/brane/assets/img/brane-test-github.png" style="margin-bottom: -35px" alt="package tester output">
    <br/>
    <sup>Figure 2: package tester output</sup>
</p>

It turned out that the value returned by the `getreadme` function is Base64-encoded. This is not the correct format for the word count example. We assume that the application developer does not have the required knowledge to convert this output to the correct format. The involved system engineer is asked to develop and add a function that will decode this value into a plain string.

[Previous](/brane/quickstart/quickstart.html){: .btn .btn-outline }
[Next](/brane/quickstart/2-decode-from-base64.html){: .btn .btn-outline }
