docs/index.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Home
nav_order: 1
description: "Index"
permalink: /
---

# The Brane Framework

Programmable Orchestration of Applications and Networking
{: .fs-6 .fw-300 }

[Get started now](/brane/quickstart.html){: .btn .btn-primary .fs-5 .mb-4 .mb-md-0 .mr-2 } 
[See it in action](#demonstration){: .btn .fs-5 .mb-4 .mb-md-0 }

---

## Introduction
Scientific endeavors are demanding, with acceleration, ever more storage and computing capabilities. Projects exist that even desire the next frontier of computing: exascale (10<sup>18</sup> FLOPS). Still, at present, the first supercomputer capable of exascale computing has yet to become operational. It will certainly take years before exascale becomes the widespread norm for high-performance computing (HPC).

Since we, currently and in the short-term, cannot make use of centralized exascale capabilities, we need to resort to a hybrid of HPC clusters, the Cloud and distributed data stores to meet the demand for exascale as much as possible. This brings myriad challenges, not only at all levels of the technical stack but also organizationally, e.g. due to distributed collaboration with divided responsibilities. The existing solutions, i.e. the typical web portal backed by a workflow management system (WfMS), do not provide sufficient control to address all of the aforementioned challenges. For the most part, this is because these WfMSs do not let us model and/or optimize the underlying physical infrastructure(s) and network(s) directly, which is crucial in establishing extreme-scale deployments. Moreover, with these semi-static web portals, domain scientists are often dependent on others for maintaining their workflows. This results in tedious development iterations, which in turn hampers scientific progress.

With the Brane framework we address these shortcomings. It features a programmatic approach to constructing workflows and research infrastructures that is intuitive and easy to use, yet is expressive and enough to capture and control the entire, distributed, technical stack. The programming model is based on the separation of concerns principle. For each level of the technical stack different tooling and abstractions are provided. As a result, workflows can be written in a high-level language directly by domain scientists, while optimizations can be implemented separately by the relevant expert(s).

## Architecture
...

## Demonstration
...

## Releases
...

---

## About the project
[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/258514017.svg)](https://zenodo.org/badge/latestdoi/258514017)
{: .no-lnk }

Brane &copy; 2020 University of Amsterdam

### License

Brane is licensed under the [Apache-2.0](https://github.com/onnovalkering/brane/blob/master/LICENSE) license.

Commit message:

feat(docs): update hompage and add initial architecture page

docs/index.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Home
nav_order: 1
description: "Index"
permalink: /
---

# The Brane Framework

Programmable Orchestration of Applications and Networking
{: .fs-6 .fw-300 }

[Get started now](/brane/quickstart.html){: .btn .btn-primary .fs-5 .mb-4 .mb-md-0 .mr-2 } 
[See it in action](#demonstration){: .btn .fs-5 .mb-4 .mb-md-0 }

---

## Introduction
Scientific endeavors are demanding, with acceleration, ever more storage and computing capabilities. Projects exist that even desire the next frontier of computing: exascale (10<sup>18</sup> FLOPS). Still, at present, the first supercomputer capable of exascale computing has yet to become operational. It will certainly take years before exascale becomes the widespread norm for high-performance computing (HPC).

Since we, currently and in the short-term, cannot make use of centralized exascale capabilities, we need to resort to a hybrid of HPC clusters, the Cloud and distributed data stores to meet the demand for exascale as much as possible. This brings myriad challenges, not only at all levels of the technical stack but also organizationally, e.g. due to distributed collaboration with divided responsibilities. The existing solutions, i.e. the typical web portal backed by a workflow management system (WfMS), do not provide sufficient control to address all of the aforementioned challenges. For the most part, this is because these WfMSs do not let us model and/or optimize the underlying physical infrastructure(s) and network(s) directly, which is crucial in establishing extreme-scale deployments. Moreover, with these semi-static web portals, domain scientists are often dependent on others for maintaining their workflows. This results in tedious development iterations, which in turn hampers scientific progress.

With the Brane framework we address these shortcomings. It features a programmatic approach to constructing workflows and research infrastructures that is intuitive and easy to use, yet is expressive and enough to capture and control the entire, distributed, technical stack. The programming model is based on the separation of concerns principle. For each level of the technical stack different tooling and abstractions are provided. As a result, workflows can be written in a high-level language directly by domain scientists, while optimizations can be implemented separately by the relevant expert(s).

** figure

Learn more about how Brane works on the [Architecture](/brane/architecture.html) page.

## Demonstration
In this two-part screencast, Brane is used to develop a workflow based on the [LOFAR](http://lofar.org) project. The first video demonstrates how packages are created. The second video, in turn, shows how these packages are used as workflow building blocks. All the code is available on GitHub [here](https://github.com/onnovalkering/brane/tree/master/examples/lofar) and [here](https://github.com/EOSC-LOFAR/prefactor-cwl). 

** video 1

** video 2

---

## About the project
[![Release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/onnovalkering/brane.svg)](https://github.com/onnovalkering/brane/releases/latest)
[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/258514017.svg)](https://zenodo.org/badge/latestdoi/258514017)
{: .no-lnk }

Brane &copy; 2020 University of Amsterdam

<a class="no" href="https://mns-research.nl" target="_blank">
    <img src="/brane/assets/img/mns.png" width="150px" alt="MNS">
</a>

_The Brane framework has been developed as part of [PROCESS](https://www.process-project.eu), which has received funding from the European Union's Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement 777533._

### License

Brane is licensed under the [Apache-2.0](https://github.com/onnovalkering/brane/blob/master/LICENSE) license.
